Test Plan for Login & Search Functionality (Updated)
Objective
To validate the login and search functionality of the ananas.rs platform using a production‑grade automation framework.
The objective is to ensure that all critical user journeys work correctly, edge cases are handled, security vulnerabilities are mitigated, and the UI is responsive – while maintaining a robust CI/CD pipeline.

Scope
Login functionality – valid/invalid credentials, empty fields, password boundaries, SQL injection, XSS, forgot password link, account lockout (expected but missing), responsive design.

Search functionality – valid, empty, and invalid search queries.

Cross‑browser compatibility – Chrome, Firefox, Edge (via WebDriverManager).

Responsive design – mobile (iPhone X) and tablet (iPad Pro) viewports.

CI/CD integration – GitHub Actions (automated on every push) and Jenkins pipeline (optional).

Containerisation – Docker support for isolated, reproducible test runs.

Types of Testing
Type	Description
Functional Testing	Valid login with correct credentials, error messages for invalid inputs, search with valid/invalid terms, forgot password link.
Security Testing	SQL injection, XSS attacks, special characters in email fields.
Responsive Design Testing	Login form display and functionality on mobile and tablet resolutions.
Cross‑browser Testing	Chrome, Firefox, Edge (local runs).
CI/CD & Container Testing	Headless execution in GitHub Actions and Docker, artifact generation (reports, screenshots, logs).
Negative & Boundary Testing	Empty fields, password length boundaries (min 8 chars, max 300 chars – known app bug).
Expected Errors / Edge Cases
Empty username and password fields.

Invalid email format (missing @, missing dot, special characters).

Incorrect password for a valid email.

Incorrect email with valid password.

Overly long password (300 characters – app returns generic error, not specific).

SQL injection attempts in username field.

XSS injection attempts.

Account lockout after 5 failed attempts (not implemented – test disabled).

Test Cases (20 total)
ID	Test Name	Status / Notes
TC1	Valid login (John)	✅ Passes locally, skipped in CI
TC2	Valid login (Ed)	✅ Passes locally, skipped in CI
TC3	Invalid password	✅ Passes
TC4	Mixed valid/invalid credentials	✅ Passes
TC5	Invalid email with valid password	✅ Passes
TC6	Empty email and password fields	✅ Passes
TC7	Empty email field only	✅ Passes
TC8	Forgot password link	✅ Passes
TC9	Maximum password length (300 chars)	⚠️ Disabled – known app bug (no specific error)
TC10	Minimum password length (<8 chars)	✅ Passes
TC11	Password boundary (7 chars)	✅ Passes
TC12	Account lockout after 5 attempts	⚠️ Disabled – known app bug (no lockout)
TC13	Special characters in email	✅ Passes
TC14	Invalid email format (missing dot)	✅ Passes
TC15	Missing '@' symbol in email	✅ Passes
TC16	SQL injection in username	✅ Passes
TC17	XSS in username	✅ Passes
TC18	Responsive design – mobile (375×812)	✅ Passes locally, skipped in CI
TC19	Responsive design – tablet (1024×1366)	✅ Passes locally, skipped in CI
TC20	Search – valid query ("Laptop")	✅ Passes locally, skipped in CI
TC21	Search – empty query	✅ Passes locally, skipped in CI
TC22	Search – invalid query (random string)	✅ Passes locally, skipped in CI
Notes:

Tests skipped in CI are marked with SkipException due to headless environment limitations (login redirect unstable, search element not reliably found). They pass when run locally with a visible browser.

Two tests are disabled (@Test(enabled = false)) because the target application does not implement the expected security features (account lockout, specific password length error). These are documented as known application bugs.

Tools & Technologies
Category	Tools
Test Framework	TestNG 7.10.2
Browser Automation	Selenium WebDriver 4.27.0
Driver Management	WebDriverManager 5.9.2
Reporting	ExtentReports 5.1.2
Logging	Log4j2 2.23.1
Build Tool	Maven 3.9+
CI/CD	GitHub Actions (workflow), Jenkins (Jenkinsfile)
Containerisation	Docker (Dockerfile)
Version Control	Git / GitHub
Programming Language	Java 17
Key Framework Features
Page Object Model (POM) – maintainable, reusable page classes.

Data Providers – reduce code duplication for similar test scenarios.

Soft Assertions – collect multiple failures in a single test.

Retry Analyzer – automatic retry of flaky tests (up to 2 times).

Headless Mode – automatically enabled in CI/Docker environments.

Parallel Execution – TestNG XML for cross‑browser parallel runs.

Log4j2 – console and file logging with different levels (info, warn, debug).

ExtentReports – HTML reports with screenshots on failure.

Execution & Reporting
Local Execution
bash
mvn clean test                     # Chrome (default)
mvn clean test -Dbrowser=firefox   # Firefox
mvn clean test -Dtest=LoginTest    # Run only LoginTest
CI Execution (GitHub Actions)
Triggered on every push to main branch.

Runs on Ubuntu latest with headless Chrome.

Generates and uploads ExtentReport, screenshots, and logs as artifacts.

Docker Execution
bash
docker build -t ananas-tests .
docker run --rm -v "$(pwd)/extent-reports:/app/extent-reports" ananas-tests
Reports
HTML report: extent-reports/extent-report.html

Screenshots: screenshots/ (only on failures)

Logs: logs/automation.log

Known Limitations & Future Improvements
Application bugs – two tests disabled until the application implements lockout and password length validation.

CI headless issues – login redirect and search input are not reliable in GitHub Actions; affected tests are skipped in CI but pass locally.

Potential improvement – Use undetected-chromedriver or a real browser cloud service (SauceLabs, BrowserStack) for CI.